---
title: 英语句式整理
date: 2020-11-09 08:52:17
tags:
- 英语
- 考研
categories:
- 英语
---

# 小作文

## 开篇 (1~2 句）

### 告示

This is to notify that xxx will be held at XXX from xx:xx to xx:xx on June 28^th.
We cordially invite you to attend...   

### 信件

引出 This (letter) serves to
- 邀请 (On behalf of ...) extend a warm invitation to you to attend the .... ,on August 13-20, 2018 at Peking University
- 推荐/建议 make some [suggestions/recommendations] with regard to(prep.) ..., (since you asked for my advice)
- 申请 apply for ...
- 申请兴趣/道歉/感谢/慰问 express my deepest [interest/apologies/gratitude/sympathies] over the loss of,    since... /apologize for ...
- 辞职 make a hard decision to quit due to personal reasons.
- 祝贺 congratulate your achievement ,since I heard the news that...
- 投诉 draw your attention to the problem that ...

感谢客套 I am so delighted that you trust me to arrange your ...

自我介绍 

## 中间段 (3~4 句）

活动目的 The event is prepared in the intention to...

推荐理由 I strongly recommend ... to you because I am sure...

观点收尾 These are some important points that I wanted to mention.I am sure if ... you will ...

## 结尾段 (1~2 句）

### 期待

It would be much appreciated if you could please send back the reply slip (before June 21^st) 
- 参与 to inform us of your attendance.
- 给机会 to grant me an interview

We look forward to your reply.

Thank you for your time and consideration.  
- 约谈 I look forward to speaking with you.
- 投诉 If detailed information is required,please contact me at 12345678.
- 咨询 I am hoping that your answers to my queries would help me get a clear foresight on ...

### 推荐/建议
Hopefully my [recommendations/suggestions/] are constructive and wish you a delightful journey.

### 道歉
Please accept my sincere apologies for any inconvenience that my behavior may have caused to (the company)...

### 祝贺
Many congratulations for your achievement and best wishes for future growth as well!

### 告示
Those who want to participate can find our desk by the dining hall around 12 a.m. every day this week.
We look forward to your participation.

### 积极帮助
Please do not hesitate to call if you think of anything at all you might need.










# 图表大作文

柱图 bar chart
饼图 pie chart
线图 line chart
表格 table

## 开篇

### 引入 
动态 The XXX chart clearly shows the changes in  the number of ... over [the period from ... to .../past several decades] ...

静态 This XXX chart, simple yet illuminating, illustrates the proportions/results of ....

### 描绘数据

**两个变量趋势一样，但有细微差别**
We can see steady growth/decline in ... these years.
A closer look,however,shows a striking contrast differences between ... : sth. was growing/declining at a relatively faster pace, from  just 10% in 2017 to surprising 50% ,where as sth. just witnessed a slight rise/decline in ... each year,with the number ....

**此消彼长**
As we can see from the chart,between 2017 to 2019, sth increased rapidly from 10% to 50% .But in the meanwhile , sth had declined ,falling from 50% to 10% ...

**对比比例**
As we can see from the chart, the biggest section is ...,accounting for 50% of the total, followed closely by .... which represents 33%. By comparison , the next two significant items are ..., which are 10%,20% respectively.

### 图画

概括引入 The drawing portrays a touching/encouraging/provocative scene in which ...

## 阐释图表

**总结** 
Undoubtedly，the chart reflects a common [social phenomenon/significant tendency] that [citizens/students/...] ... when ...

**引入原因**
The main factors contributing to this phenomenon can be summarized as follows.

### 列举词

**并列**
In the first place
Moreover
Meanwhile
What is also worth mentioning here is
Last but not the least

**转折**
By contrast,...
On the one hand,.....On the other hand...
Contrastingly，... 
In comparision，...

### 阐述原因

**主观原因**

With ...,people's sense of [responsibility/cooperation/environmental consciousness/desire for success] improves, which will inevitably leads to ...

With ...[原因]，[某主体现象]，and therefore more likely to [递进现象]。

There is a rising concern over ... among sb.

**客观原因**

随着发展 As [ecnomy/technology] develops, more and more people [are concerned about/can afford] ..., making it possible for ... to ...,

优势竞争 With the advancement of technology and the promotion of innovation, ... have achieved enhanced performance and imporved features, able to rival counterparts.

**社会政策原因**

The authorities have released many preferential policies (such as ...) to promote ..., which undoubtedly stimulate ...

**传统文化**

China, as one of the world's oldest cradles of civilization , is famous for its ...

In our traditional culture, ... is considered as [a thoughtful and courteous behavior/an immoral action]

### 总结原因 （可选）

With the joint efforts of all these factors ,it's natural that ...

## 结尾

### 预测趋势
Since ..., we have sound reasons to believe that ... will .... in the following years.

### 预测+评论影响
In conclusion, given that ...., in future , we can probably expect to see more and more people ..., which would ...

### 发现问题+建议
However, this encouraging trend also poses multiple challenges, such as ...To deal with them, we need firstly to ... In addition, ...

### 看好未来+建议

To be sure, it is an encouraging sign that ... But if ...(this business) want to make continuous progress toward higher goals , ... might be a good choice.

# 素材

## 主观动作

**失望**
I want to inform you of my dissatisfaction with ...

I must complain about ...

I beg to call your attention to the fact that ...

To one’s dismay/surprise ...


**醒悟**

be/become increasingly aware of (the infinite power of ...)

## 连接句

### 比较结构

coincident with A has been B  
随着 A ... 与此同时 B ...

>Coincident with the developement of Chinese economy has been the great improvement of the education in China.

it is not that ... but that ... 
这并不是说 ... 而是 ...

名词+or+名词
... , 即 ...

>Technology includes techniques,or ways to do things.
>科技包括技艺，即制作方法。

not ...(any) more than ...
不比 ... 怎样
正如 ... 一样不 ...

>The archaeologists' efforts are not directed at "proving" the correctness of the Bible any more than belief in Gog can be scientifically demonstrated.
>正如信仰上帝不能从科学证明一样，考古学家们的努力也不是为了“验证“《圣经》的正确性。

not so much ... as ...
与其说 ... 不如说 ...

>Science moves forward,not so much through the insights of great men of genius as because of more ordinary things like improved techniques and tools.
> ... 与其说源于天才伟人的 ... 不如说源于更为普遍的 ...

no less ... than ...
不但 ... 而且 ...

other (...) than ...
（ ... 中）除了 ...

nothing but = nothing else than = nothing less than
不是而是

to say nothing of
更不用说 ... 
（承接上文肯定或否定）

cannot be too adj. ...
再 adj. 也不为过 （即不会太 adj.）

>We cannot be too faithful to our duties

... only to ...
结果却 ...
（与目的相反）

(There be) no 主语 but 谓语
没有（否定谓语）的（主语）
（but 做否定关系代词，类似于 who not ，that not）

>There is no man but has his faults.
>人皆有过

sth. be the last thing that ...
决不会/决不至于。...sth

>Breach of promise is the last thing that he is likely to commit.
>违约是他决不会做的事

### 原因

...,Given ...

>The performance of American brand cars is to be expected,given their worldwide fame and reliable quality.

## 人物

kids on the verge of dropping out

environmentally conscious  people

## 利害

### 客体优势

excellent performance 

drop in price, friendly price

improved features, attractive appearance

upgrading of technology , the promotion of innovation

### 提升自己

One should cultivate a broad knowledge base and keep abreast of current events and issues.

Moreover,be persistent.XXX learning is not a task that can be accomplished within a short time.Only with a lot of sustained efforts can we improve our XXX skills.

### 个人益处
facilitate students' academic learning

make new friends, learn new skills

discover and grow 成长

expand one's horizon 

learn to be independent

This position will provide a challenging, stimulating and rewarding career opportunity

### 美德

working hard,honesty and integrity, persistence 